[Music]
they say seeing is believing or not get
ready for 11 optical illusions that will
trick your eyes those who create optical
illusions use combinations of colors
lights or particular patterns that can
really trick the brain so get ready to
check your visual perception with this
fun challenge and don't forget to click
the subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life
the first one is creepy this is a famous
drawing created in 1892 by Charles Alan
Gilbert called all is vanity and
depending on what you see first it can
come off as a little creepy most people
who look at it don't even realize that
the drawing is much more than it seems
have you noticed anything unusual about
this picture you have 10 seconds to
figure it out those who look at the
drawing notice either a woman sitting in
front of the vanity mirror or a spooky
looking skull if you've managed to spot
both of them right away congratulations
your visual perception is pretty
impressive alright here are hidden faces
here's another challenging image where
you have to find something that's hidden
right in plain sight now at first glance
it might look way too easy after all
everybody can clearly see at least four
faces in the tree branches but like any
optical illusion there's a catch see how
many more faces you can spot in the next
10 seconds
if you found 10 faces hidden among the
branches then you're an extremely
observant individual some say that these
faces are actually those of famous
public figures can you recognize anybody
share your ideas in the comments below a
[Music]
fair lady this gorgeous lady must be a
ballerina otherwise how does she keep
rotating like that with that much grace
Oh like on her toes
but we're not here to discuss her
artistic skills instead can you tell if
she is moving in one or two directions
[Music]
so what do you think
left-right both oh the correct answer is
she is moving in the right direction
cafe wall illusion the name of this
illusion was inspired by a tiled wall of
a cafe in Bristol like Starbucks nah but
I will tell you no more for now can you
tell if the dark lines are parallel to
each other or incline you have ten
seconds to figure it out
again it seemed like an easy question
the lines are so obviously inclined it
turns out that they're not let us blur
the image quite a bit more now that all
the small elements are completely
blurred you can see the dark blue lines
are actually parallel to each other well
that's not fair
this phenomenon is known as the cafe
wall illusion it was first described
more than a hundred years ago but got
its name only in the 1970s when a guy
named Steve Simpson noticed a similar
effect on the wall of a cafe in Bristol
little black and white bricks at the
intersection of wide lines make this
illusion possible curved elements inside
the blue lines only make this effect
stronger the reason we see this
distortion is that our retinal neurons
and neurons in the visual cortex work
together in quite a peculiar way number
five for the impossible triangle meet
the impossible triangle but wait what
makes it so impossible you say you have
ten seconds to figure it out before you
hear the explanation
[Music]
the impossible triangle known as Penrose
triangle is so called because it can
never exist in reality if it did exist
it would be absolutely contrary to the
rules of Euclidean geometry what is so
wrong with this figure well if you
follow the ball sliding on the surface
of the triangle from the top point you
will see that the left side is extending
away and the right side is leaning
towards you however they both seem to be
on the same plane only an optical
illusion makes it seemingly possible to
the human eye now number six bicycle
okay this one seems pretty plain there
is a bicycle and it's moving still there
is something wrong here something
mysterious can you figure out what the
trick is you have ten seconds to do so
what makes the bicycle move obviously
the fact that the spokes in its wheels
are rotating now it can't be that easy
when it comes to optical illusions in
fact the spokes remain in place and the
colors that fill the wheels those 50
shades of grey that keeps changing this
illusory motion effect is created thanks
to small quick iya movements scientists
are still working on figuring out how
this phenomenon works to understand the
perception of motion better ah now i
present to you rubik's cube what are
these red and green and white lines all
about it looks like something familiar
but what exactly is it if you need more
time just pause the video
[Music]
we are going to need a cylindrical
mirror to get the right answer
it's a Rubik's Cube this optical
illusion is based on an amorphous hey I
remember an amorphous she used to live
down the street actually it's a form of
perspective the idea of it is to
transform images so distorted it is
almost impossible to guess what they are
into something that makes sense
using a cylindrical mirror and it only
makes sense if you do it from one
special point so only one person can see
it at a time it would be a great way to
send hidden messages it turns out this
technique is not a 21st century 3d era
invention it actually dates back to late
Renaissance which was in the 16th
century chessboard
[Music]
you can't play any chess with this board
because it's moving all over the place
or is it you have ten seconds to do so
and please try not to get hypnotized
[Music]
as hard as it is to believe the eyes
actually remain where they were you can
see it if you focus on just one of them
if you stare at one point and ignore the
constant movement of black and white
dots it all becomes clear and dust away
huh counting down from number nine
upside down steve buscemi can you tell
me what's wrong with steve buscemi I
mean I hope Steve is perfectly fine but
can you tell me what's wrong with the
second picture hmm these pictures look
the same to me hit thumbs up if you
think so too let's try to turn it upside
down oh ho now that is way too scary it
seems like my eyes tricked me again by
the way here is another fun celebrity
optical illusion Hermann grid illusion
and scintillating grid illusion look at
this black square crisscross with
perpendicular white lines the white dots
situated at the intersections of the
grid shift their color from white to
gray and back when you concentrate on a
particular dot you see that it's white
but as soon as your attention wanders
the dot turns gray that's the Hermann
grid illusion amazing isn't it we can
take this illusion one step further by
positioning white dots at the
intersections of gray lines all placed
on top of the black background look at
this image attentively and you'll notice
black dots starting to pop up at the
intersections of the grid doesn't it
create a scintillating effect another
name for this illusion is a simultaneous
light contrast illusion as you perceive
the dots as white at one moment and then
almost immediately you see them as black
how is it going have you managed to spot
this effect yet if not take your time
you can pause the video and observe this
illusion for a bit longer so why do your
senses let you down by making you see
gray or black instead of white actually
this illusion demonstrates one of the
most important principles of human
perception you don't always see things
for what they really are the thing is
that the retinal cells in your eyes act
as light receptors when only one
receptor gets illuminated it perceives
more light than when its colleagues are
also illuminated this prevents the
firing of nearby receptors as a result
the effect only gets transmitted
laterally let's see how it works with
the Hermann grid illusion the white
lines are arranged in such a way that
there's more light around the
intersections then along the lines
themselves thus the dots at the
intersections are more inhibited and you
see darker spots are you thoroughly
impressed yet well the best is yet to
come
finally consider this one boxes it takes
one large box and one little box and
some magic to make this illusion
possible I will leave some space to your
imagination here let's discuss it in the
comment section how is it possible for
the little box to be outside inside and
part of the large box at the same time
so how many optical illusions did you
manage to crack tell us in the comments
below now don't forget to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]
you